Add "SentenceTransformers and the 🤗Inference API" to blog (#360)
huggingface/blog: st-inference-api.md

> "ST is a Python framework for state-of-the-art sentence, text, and image embeddings. [...] You can use ST to compute sentence/text embeddings for more than 100 languages. These embeddings can then be compared, e.g., with cosine-similarity to find sentences with similar meanings. This can be useful for semantic textual similarity, semantic search, or paraphrase mining." - [ST documentation](https://www.sbert.net/index.html#sentencetransformers-documentation).

Once a piece of information (a sentence, a document, an image) is embedded, the creativity starts; several interesting industrial applications use embeddings. E.g., Google Search uses embeddings to [match text to text and text to images](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/developers-practitioners/meet-ais-multitool-vector-embeddings); Snapchat uses them to "[serve the right ad to the right user at the right time](https://eng.snap.com/machine-learning-snap-ad-ranking)"; and Meta (Facebook) uses it for [their social search](https://research.facebook.com/publications/embedding-based-retrieval-in-facebook-search/).

> > "[...] once you understand this ML multitool (embedding), you'll be able to build everything from search engines to recommendation systems to chatbots and a whole lot more. You don't have to be a data scientist with ML expertise to use them, nor do you need a huge labeled dataset." - [Dale Markowitz, Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/developers-practitioners/meet-ais-multitool-vector-embeddings).

Author: Me too! It can be a great motivator to study STs! I moved it rn to the start of the post 🤗

But first, we need to embed our dataset (we'll use the terms encode and embed interchangeably). The Hugging Face Inference API allows us to embed a dataset using a quick POST call easily.

In this post, we will:
1. Embed text examples using the 🤗Inference-API.
2. Upload our embedded dataset to the 🤗Hub for free hosting.

## Using the 🤗Inference API to embed our dataset

First, select the model you will use. We can choose a model from the [SentenceTransformers library](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers). In this case, we use ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2). In the Python code below, we will store the model id in the `model_id` variable.

Log in to the Hugging Face Hub. You must create a token in your [Account Settings](http://hf.co/settings/tokens). We will store your token in `hf_token`.

```py
model_id = "sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"
hf_token = "get your token in http://hf.co/settings/tokens"
```

> To generate our embeddings we use the `https://api-inference.huggingface.co/pipeline/feature-extraction/{model_id}` endpoint with the headers `{"Authorization": f"Bearer {hf_token}"}`. We define a function that would receive a dictionary with our texts and return a list with our embeddings.

Reviewer: I am not a big fan since it exposes this before we made things like pinning compliant (meaning we can pin feature extraction).

But since it's the only sane way for `feature-extraction` and keeping the widgets nice, let's go with it.

Thanks for pinging me !

```py
texts = ["First text", "Hi!", "I love SentenceTransformers"]

output = query(dict(inputs = texts))
```
We get back a list with the three embeddings. Our model, ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2), is encoding the three input texts to three embeddings of size 384 each. Let's convert the list to a NumPy array of shape (3,384).

```py
import numpy as np
embeddings = np.asarray(output)

print(embeddings)
```
```py
[[-0.01706981  0.05439235  0.00906055 ...  0.09818567  0.10090933  -0.0086112 ]
 [-0.08946919  0.03267909  0.01558172 ...  0.0648054  -0.01970844   0.0207535 ]
 [-0.09226393 -0.01157228  0.00867325 ...  0.10857432  0.05021105  -0.06054248]]
```

## Host your embedded dataset for free on the 🤗Hub

> 🤗Datasets is a library for quickly accessing and sharing datasets. We will use it to host our embeddings dataset in the 🤗Hub. Then we can load it with a single line of code. The Datasets documentation is exceptionally helpful on the steps to share and load.; here, we based ourselves on the [Share doc](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
🤗Datasets is a library for quickly accessing and sharing datasets. We will use it to host our embeddings dataset in the 🤗Hub. Then we can load it with a single line of code. The Datasets documentation is exceptionally helpful on the steps to share and load. Let's follow the steps of the [Share doc](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share). 
```

First, login into the 🤗Hub from your terminal. Use a token from your [Account Settings](http://hf.co/settings/tokens).

```
huggingface-cli login
```
Create a dataset repository. You can add an organization.

```

> huggingface-cli repo create my_embeddings --type dataset --organization the_embedding_org

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention this can be done in the UI as well

```
Clone your repository. Make sure you have [git-lfs installed](https://git-lfs.github.com/). Here the namespace is either your username or your organization name.

```
git lfs install

git clone https://huggingface.co/datasets/namespace/my_embeddings
```

Now let's host our embedding. See the 🤗Datasets documentation for more information on [how to prepare your files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#prepare-your-files). First, we add the large data files with `git lfs track`. Suppose our embeddings dataset is compressed in a GZ format.

```
cp /somewhere/data/*.gz .
git lfs track *.gz

> git add .gitattributes

Reviewer 2: I don't think you showed how to save the embeddng to gz format

git add *.gz
git commit -m "add gz files"
```
Commit and push. You can also upload a loading script, a metadata file, and more. Refer to the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#upload-your-files).

```
git status

> git commit -m "First version of the my_embeddings dataset."

Reviewer 2: Isn't this same as line 116?

---
title: 'Embedding-as-a-Service: Sentence Transformers, the Inference API, and 🤗 Datasets'
thumbnail: /blog/assets/80_ST_inference-api/thumbnail.png
---

<h1>
    Embedding-as-a-Service: Sentence Transformers, the Inference API, and 🤗 Datasets
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published June 22, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/st-inference-api.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/espejelomar"> 
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://bafybeidj6oxo7zm5pejnc2iezy24npw4qbt2jgpo4n6igt7oykc7rbvcxi.ipfs.dweb.link/omar_picture.png" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>espejelomar</code>
            <span class="fullname">Omar Espejel</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

Check out this tutorial with the Notebook Companion:
<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/80_ST_inference-api.ipynb">
    <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/>
</a>

## Understanding embeddings

> An embedding is a numerical representation of a piece of information, e.g., texts, documents, images, audio, etc. The representation captures the semantic meaning of what is being embedded, making them "smart." Embeddings can be used as inputs to machine learning algorithms as they are an ordered list of numbers. In other words, entire pieces of information can be reduced to a list of numbers called embeddings. 
> 
> Embeddings can be represented in a vector space. For example, the semantic representation of an image can be roughly captured in a list of 384 numbers, each representing a position within the dimensions of a vector space. We can then embed some text that describes what the above image contains; that is, we create an embedding that can be represented in the same 384-dimensional vector space. The proximity of the image and text embeddings can be calculated and thus confirm if the text is similar to what the image represents.

Reviewer 2: The last sentences of the first paragraph sounded a bit strange and sounds more technical than the rest of the post, I think it can be more concise. WDYT of something along these lines combining both paragraphs?

```suggestion
An embedding is a numerical representation of a piece of information, e.g., texts, documents, images, audio, etc. The representation captures the semantic meaning of what is being embedded, making them powerful for many applications.

As an example, given a sentence "a dog and a cat", an embedding of the sentence could be represented in a vector space, for example with a list of 384 numbers (e.g. [0.84, 0.42, ...]). As this vector captures the meaning, you can do interesting things such as calculating the distance between different embeddings to determine how well do the meaning of two sentences match.

It's not limited to text! You can also create an embedding of an image of 384 numbers, and compare the embedding of an image with the embedding of the text to determine if the text describes the image. This can power image search systems!
```

Author: Makes complete sense! Thank you for the proposal. I make some small changes to it:

```
An embedding is a numerical representation of a piece of information, for example, text, documents, images, audio, etc. The representation captures the semantic meaning of what is being embedded, making it robust for many industry applications.

Given the text "What is the main benefit of voting?", an embedding of the sentence could be represented in a vector space, for example, with a list of 384 numbers (for example, [0.84, 0.42, ..., 0.02]). Since this list captures the meaning, we can do exciting things, like calculate the distance between different embeddings to determine how well the meaning of two sentences matches.

Embeddings are not limited to text! You can also create an embedding of an image (for example, a list of 384 numbers) and compare it with a text embedding to determine if a sentence describes the image. This concept is under powerful systems for image search, classification, description, generation, and more!
```

Author: Agree, I think generation would not be a good example! thanks

> How are embeddings generated? The open-source library called [Sentence Transformers](https://www.sbert.net/index.html) allows us to create state-of-the-art embeddings from images and text for free.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How are embeddings generated? The open-source library called [Sentence Transformers](https://www.sbert.net/index.html) allows you to create state-of-the-art embeddings from images and text for free.
```

3. Compare a customer's query to the embedded dataset to identify which is the most similar FAQ.

## 1. Embedding a dataset

The first step is selecting an existing pre-trained model for creating the embeddings. We can choose a model from the [Sentence Transformers library](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers). In this case, let's use the ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2) because it's a small but powerful model. In a future post, we will examine other models and their trade-offs.

Log in to the Hub. You must create a write token in your [Account Settings](http://hf.co/settings/tokens). We will store the write token in `hf_token`.

```py
model_id = "sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"
hf_token = "get your token in http://hf.co/settings/tokens"
```
To generate the embeddings you can use the `https://api-inference.huggingface.co/pipeline/feature-extraction/{model_id}` endpoint with the headers `{"Authorization": f"Bearer {hf_token}"}`. Here is a function that receives a dictionary with the texts and returns a list with embeddings.

```py
import requests

> from typing import Dict

Reviewer 2: This line can be removed

api_url = f"https://api-inference.huggingface.co/pipeline/feature-extraction/{model_id}"
headers = {"Authorization": f"Bearer {hf_token}"}
```

The first time you generate the embeddings, it may take a while (approximately 20 seconds) for the API to return them. We use the `retry` decorator (install with `pip install retry`) so that if on the first try, `output = query(dict(inputs = texts))` doesn't work, wait 10 seconds and try three times again. This happens because, on the first request, the model needs to be downloaded and installed on the server, but subsequent calls are much faster.

```py
@retry(tries=3, delay=10)
def query(texts):

>     response = requests.post(api_url, headers=headers, json={"inputs": texts})

Reviewer 2: If you do the following, it will do a single request and wait for the answer. That might make the code cleaner (please try it out first just in case)
```suggestion
    response = requests.post(api_url, headers=headers, json={"inputs": texts, "wait_for_model": True})
```

Install the 🤗 Datasets library with `pip install datasets`. Then, load the embedded dataset from the Hub and convert it to a PyTorch `FloatTensor`. Note that this is not the only way to operate on a `Dataset`; for example, you could use NumPy, Tensorflow, or SciPy (refer to the [Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/loading)). If you want to practice with a real dataset, the [`ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare) repo contains the embedded FAQs, or you can use the [companion notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/80_ST_inference-api.ipynb) to this blog. 

```py
import torch
from datasets import load_dataset

faqs_embeddings = load_dataset('namespace/repo_name')
dataset_embeddings = torch.from_numpy(faqs_embeddings["train"].to_pandas().to_numpy()).to(torch.float)
```

> We use the query function we defined before to embed the customer's question and convert it to a PyTorch `FloatTensor` to operate over it efficiently. Note that after the embedded dataset is loaded, we could use the `add_faiss_index` and `search` methods of a `Dataset` to identify the closest FAQ to an embedded query using the [faiss library](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss). Here is a [nice tutorial](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/faiss_es). This is a valuable alternative.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the query function we defined before to embed the customer's question and convert it to a PyTorch `FloatTensor` to operate over it efficiently. Note that after the embedded dataset is loaded, we could use the `add_faiss_index` and `search` methods of a `Dataset` to identify the closest FAQ to an embedded query using the [faiss library](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss). Here is a [nice tutorial of the alternative](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/faiss_es).
```

</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published June 16, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/st-inference-api.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/espejelomar"> 
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://bafybeidj6oxo7zm5pejnc2iezy24npw4qbt2jgpo4n6igt7oykc7rbvcxi.ipfs.dweb.link/omar_picture.png" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>espejelomar</code>
            <span class="fullname">Omar Espejel</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Embeddings as a nerve center for industrial applications

> "[...] once you understand this ML multitool (embedding), you'll be able to build everything from search engines to recommendation systems to chatbots and a whole lot more. You don't have to be a data scientist with ML expertise to use them, nor do you need a huge labeled dataset." - [Dale Markowitz, Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/developers-practitioners/meet-ais-multitool-vector-embeddings).

> Embeddings are essential for modern machine learning. For references, see Pinecone's "[What are Vector Embeddings](https://www.pinecone.io/learn/vector-embeddings/)", our 101 on [how to use embeddings for semantic search](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sentence-transformers/Sentence_Transformers_for_semantic_search), and [Nima's thread](https://twitter.com/NimaBoscarino/status/1535331680805801984) on recent research. For generating embeddings, we will be using the open-source library called [Sentence Transformers](https://www.sbert.net/index.html) (ST). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Embeddings are essential for modern machine learning. For references, see Pinecone's "[What are Vector Embeddings](https://www.pinecone.io/learn/vector-embeddings/)", our 101 on [how to use embeddings for semantic search](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sentence-transformers/Sentence_Transformers_for_semantic_search), and [Nima's thread](https://twitter.com/NimaBoscarino/status/1535331680805801984) on recent research. For generating embeddings, we will be using the open-source library called [SentenceTransformers](https://www.sbert.net/index.html) (ST). 
```

Author: In this case, @osanseviero mentions that it would be better to have it as `Sentence Transformers` to maintain the consistency of other sections of Hugging Face.

Reviewer 3: Sounds good!

> "ST is a Python framework for state-of-the-art sentence, text, and image embeddings. [...] You can use ST to compute sentence/text embeddings for more than 100 languages. These embeddings can then be compared, e.g., with cosine-similarity to find sentences with similar meanings. This can be useful for semantic textual similarity, semantic search, or paraphrase mining." - [ST documentation](https://www.sbert.net/index.html#sentencetransformers-documentation).

> Once a piece of information (a sentence, a document, an image) is embedded, the creativity starts; several interesting industrial applications use embeddings. E.g., Google Search uses embeddings to [match text to text and text to images](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/developers-practitioners/meet-ais-multitool-vector-embeddings); Snapchat uses them to "[serve the right ad to the right user at the right time](https://eng.snap.com/machine-learning-snap-ad-ranking)"; and Meta (Facebook) uses it for [their social search](https://research.facebook.com/publications/embedding-based-retrieval-in-facebook-search/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once a piece of information (a sentence, a document, an image) is embedded, the creativity starts; several interesting industrial applications use embeddings. E.g., Google Search uses embeddings to [match text to text and text to images](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/developers-practitioners/meet-ais-multitool-vector-embeddings); Snapchat uses them to "[serve the right ad to the right user at the right time](https://eng.snap.com/machine-learning-snap-ad-ranking)"; and Meta (Facebook) uses them for [their social search](https://research.facebook.com/publications/embedding-based-retrieval-in-facebook-search/).
```

Today we will create a small Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) engine: receive a query from a user and identify which FAQ is the most similar. We will use the [US Social Security Medicare FAQs](https://faq.ssa.gov/en-US/topic/?id=CAT-01092).

But first, we need to embed our dataset (other texts use the terms encode and embed interchangeably). The Hugging Face Inference API allows us to embed a dataset using a quick POST call easily.

In a nutshell, we will:

> 1. Embed Medicare's FAQs using the Hugging Face Inference-API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Embed Medicare's FAQs using the Hugging Face Inference API.
```

2. Upload our embedded questions to the Hugging Face Hub for free hosting.
3. Compare a customer's query to our embedded dataset to identify which is the most similar FAQ in our dataset.

This application is called Semantic Search; I recommend you review our [previous tutorial](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sentence-transformers/Sentence_Transformers_for_semantic_search) to understand the mechanism behind this task better. 

## 1. Using the Hugging Face Inference API to embed our dataset

> First, select the model you will use. We can choose a model from the [Sentence Transformers library](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers). In this case, we use ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2). In the Python code below, we will store the model id in the `model_id` variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, select the model you will use. We can choose a model from the [SentenceTransformers library](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers). In this case, we use ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2). In the Python code below, we will store the model id in the `model_id` variable.
```

> First, select the model you will use. We can choose a model from the [Sentence Transformers library](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers). In this case, we use ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2). In the Python code below, we will store the model id in the `model_id` variable.

Reviewer 3: Should we add information on why that particular model was chosen? Or maybe that could be good content for a future blog post, and we can just tease that here? I can definitely say that learning about the different models was (and is) a bit of a sticky subject for me, and I image it is for others as well

Author: I agree! Great idea, in the meantime, in the new commit, I mention that this is a small but powerful model. But creating a future post detailing some trade-offs of the models and when it is recommended to use them would be great! I will add it to our Notion milestones.

![Upload your Dataset with the UI](assets/80_ST_inference-api/datasetUI.png)

We will now see how to use the terminal to host our dataset. Install the huggingface-hub library with `pip install huggingface-hub`—login into the Hub using a write token from your [Account Settings](http://hf.co/settings/tokens).

```
huggingface-cli login
```
Create a dataset repository. You can add an organization; in this example our embedded FAQ repository id will be `ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare`. 

```
huggingface-cli repo create embedded_faqs_medicare --type dataset --organization ITESM
```
Clone your repository. Make sure you have [git-lfs installed](https://git-lfs.github.com/). 

```
git lfs install

!git clone https://huggingface.co/datasets/ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare
```

> Now let's host our embedding. See the 🤗Datasets documentation for more information on [how to prepare your files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#prepare-your-files). First, we convert our embeddings from a Pandas `DataFrame` to a CSV. You can save your dataset in any way you prefer, e.g., zip or pickle; you don't need to use Pandas or CSV. Since our embeddings file is not large, we can store it in a CSV, which is easily inferred by the `datasets.load_dataset()` function (see the [Datasets documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/about_dataset_load#build-and-load)), i.e., we don't need to create a loading script. We will save the embeddings inside our repository `embedded_faqs_medicare`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now let's host our embedding. See the 🤗Datasets documentation for more information on [how to prepare your files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#prepare-your-files). First, we convert our embeddings from a Pandas `DataFrame` to a CSV. You can save your dataset in any way you prefer, e.g., zip or pickle; you don't need to use Pandas or CSV. Since our embeddings file is not large, we can store it in a CSV, which is easily inferred by the `datasets.load_dataset()` function (see the [Datasets documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/about_dataset_load#build-and-load)), i.e., we don't need to create a loading script. We will save the embeddings inside our repository `ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare`.
```

Just because the paragraph above had specified that as the repo ID.

Author: Good eye!

```
cd embedded_faqs_medicare/
git lfs track *.csv
git add .gitattributes
git add embeddings.csv
```
Commit and push. You can also upload a loading script, a metadata file, and more. Refer to the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#upload-your-files).

```
git commit -m "First version of the my_embeddings dataset"
git push
```

Now your dataset is hosted on the Hub for free. You (or whoever you want to share the embeddings with) can quickly load them from a terminal with `embeddings = load_dataset("ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare")`. Let's see how.

## 3. Make a query and get the most similar FAQs

Suppose a Medicare customer asks, "How can Medicare help me?". We will **find** which of our FAQs could best answer our user query. 

We will use the same query function we defined before to embed the customer's question and convert it to a NumPy array to operate over it efficiently. 

```py
question = ["How can Medicare help me?"]

output = query(dict(inputs = question))

import numpy as np
query_embeddings = np.asarray(output)
```

> Install the 🤗Datasets library with `pip install datasets`. Then load our embedded dataset from the Hugging Face Hub and convert it to a NumPy array. Note that this is not the only way to operate on a `DataSet`; for example, you could use PyTorch, Tensorflow, or ScyPy (refer to the [Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/loading)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Install the 🤗Datasets library with `pip install datasets`. Then load our embedded dataset from the Hugging Face Hub and convert it to a NumPy array. Note that this is not the only way to operate on a `DataSet`; for example, you could use PyTorch, Tensorflow, or SciPy (refer to the [Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/loading)).
```

```py
def top_faqs(hits_array):
  return np.flip(np.argpartition(hits_array, range(hits_array.size-1))).tolist()[0]

index_top_faqs = top_faqs(hits)
print(index_top_faqs)
```
```py
[6, 2, 8, 9, 0, 11, 10, 7, 1, 3, 12, 5, 4]
```

Finally, we sort our FAQs list, `texts`, that we defined in the first section by `index_top_faqs`.

```py
print([texts[i] for i in index_top_faqs])
```
```py
['How can I get help with my Medicare Part A and Part B premiums?',
 'What is Medicare and who can get it?',
 'How do I sign up for Medicare?',
 'What are the different parts of Medicare?',
 'Will my Medicare premiums be higher because of my higher income?',
 'How do I get a replacement Medicare card?',
 'How do I sign up for Medicare Part B if I already have Part A?',
 'How do I terminate my Medicare Part B (medical insurance)?',
 'Can I sign up for Medicare Part B if I am working and have health insurance through an employer?',
 'What is the monthly premium for Medicare Part B?',
 'Should I sign up for Medicare Part B if I have Veterans' Benefits?',
 'What are Medicare late enrollment penalties?',
 'What is TRICARE ?']
 ```

> This list represents the FAQs that most resemble the query. Nice!

Reviewer 3: Totally optional, but this could be a good place to mention that the same can be achieved with `util.semantic_search` (https://www.sbert.net/examples/applications/semantic-search/README.html#util-semantic-search)

## 4. Additional resources!

> If you want to know more about the Sentence Transformers library:
> 
> - The [Hugging Face Organization](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers) for all the new models and instructions on how to download models.
> - The [Nils Reimers tweet](https://twitter.com/Nils_Reimers/status/1487014195568775173) comparing Sentence Transformer models with GPT-3 Embeddings. Spoiler alert: the Sentence Transformers are awesome!
> - The [Sentence Transformers documentation](https://www.sbert.net/),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to know more about the SentenceTransformers library:

- The [Hugging Face Organization](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers) for all the new models and instructions on how to download models.
- The [Nils Reimers tweet](https://twitter.com/Nils_Reimers/status/1487014195568775173) comparing SentenceTransformer models with GPT-3 Embeddings. Spoiler alert: the SentenceTransformers are awesome!
- The [SentenceTransformers documentation](https://www.sbert.net/),
```

Log in to the Hugging Face Hub. You must create a write token in your [Account Settings](http://hf.co/settings/tokens). We will store our write token in `hf_token`.

```py
model_id = "sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"
hf_token = "get your token in http://hf.co/settings/tokens"
```
To generate our embeddings we use the `https://api-inference.huggingface.co/pipeline/feature-extraction/{model_id}` endpoint with the headers `{"Authorization": f"Bearer {hf_token}"}`. We define a function that would receive a dictionary with our texts and return a list with our embeddings.

```py
import requests
from typing import Dict

api_url = f"https://api-inference.huggingface.co/pipeline/feature-extraction/{model_id}"
headers = {"Authorization": f"Bearer {hf_token}"}

> def query(texts: Dict):

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's remove the typings for simplicity

    response = requests.post(api_url, headers=headers, json=texts)

>     return response.json()

Reviewer 4: Maybe raise an error in case the output is an error ? For example by running your code I got
```
{'error': 'Model sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2 is currently loading', 'estimated_time': 20.0}
```

Author: Great point! Thank you. I am now using the `retry` decorator to account for this:

```
@retry(tries=3, delay=10)
def query(texts: Dict):
    response = requests.post(api_url, headers=headers, json=texts)
    result = response.json()
    if isinstance(result, list):
      return result
    elif list(result.keys())[0] == "error":
      raise RuntimeError(
          "The model is currently loading, please re-run the query."
          )
```

```py
texts = ["How do I get a replacement Medicare card?",
        "What is the monthly premium for Medicare Part B?",
        "How do I terminate my Medicare Part B (medical insurance)?",
        "How do I sign up for Medicare?",
        "Can I sign up for Medicare Part B if I am working and have health insurance through an employer?",
        "How do I sign up for Medicare Part B if I already have Part A?",
        "What are Medicare late enrollment penalties?",
        "What is Medicare and who can get it?",
        "How can I get help with my Medicare Part A and Part B premiums?",
        "What are the different parts of Medicare?",
        "Will my Medicare premiums be higher because of my higher income?",
        "What is TRICARE ?",
        "Should I sign up for Medicare Part B if I have Veterans' Benefits?"]

> output = query(dict(inputs = texts))

Reviewer 4: (nit) (sorry this is just me pushing for consistency in the python code we share) (feel free to ignore) we usually create dicts this way :p
```suggestion
output = query({"inputs": texts})
```

> output = query(dict(inputs = texts))

Reviewer 5: Would it not be easier when `dict(inputs=texts)` is moved inside the `query` function? Then this and the follow examples can become `output = query(texts)`

```
As of June 2022, it may take a while (approximately 20 seconds) for the API to return your embeddings. If on the first try `output = query(dict(inputs = texts))` doesn't work, wait a bit and try again.

> We get back a list of lists. Each list contains the embedding of an FAQ. Our model, ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2), is encoding the input questions to 13 embeddings of size 384 each. Let's convert the list to a Pandas `DataFrame` of shape (13,384).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We get back a list of lists. Each list contains the embedding of an FAQ. Our model, ["sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2), is encoding the input questions to 13 embeddings of size 384 each. Let's convert the list to a Pandas `DataFrame` of shape (13x384).
```

```py
import pandas as pd
embeddings = pd.DataFrame(output)
```

> It looks similar to this matrix:

Reviewer 2: I don't think at any point in the article we've mentioned why the embeddings are useful. Maybe somewhere near the intro we can mention that embeddings capture semantic meaning which allow us to do comparisons.

```py
[[-0.02388945  0.05525852 -0.01165488 ...  0.00577787  0.03409787  -0.0068891 ]
 [-0.0126876   0.04687412 -0.01050217 ... -0.02310316 -0.00278466   0.01047371]
 [ 0.00049438  0.11941205  0.00522949 ...  0.01687654 -0.02386115   0.00526433]
 ...
 [-0.03900796 -0.01060951 -0.00738271 ... -0.08390449  0.03768405   0.00231361]
 [-0.09598278 -0.06301168 -0.11690582 ...  0.00549841  0.1528919   0.02472013]
 [-0.01162949  0.05961934  0.01650903 ... -0.02821241 -0.00116556   0.0010672 ]]
```

## 2. Host your embedded dataset for free on the Hugging Face Hub

> 🤗Datasets is a library for quickly accessing and sharing datasets. We will host our embeddings dataset in the Hub using the terminal. Then we can load it with a single line of code. The Datasets documentation is practical on the steps to share and load. Let's follow the steps of the [Share doc](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share). Alternatively, it is possible to load the dataset using the Hub UI. First click on your user in the top right corner, then create the dataset with "New dataset". Once the repository is created, go to the "Files" tab (screenshot below) and click "Add file". Finally, drag or upload the dataset.

Reviewer 2: Actually the dataset is not saved as a file right now, so not sure if the UI instructions are very useful.

![Upload your Dataset with the UI](assets/80_ST_inference-api/datasetUI.png)

> We will now see how to use the terminal to host our dataset. Install the huggingface-hub library with `pip install huggingface-hub`—login into the Hub using a write token from your [Account Settings](http://hf.co/settings/tokens).

Reviewer 4: Since the blog is for not-so-techy people I would remove this part about the terminal (or collapse it - if it's even possible), and only show how to upload using the UI

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think let's do full UI thing to make things simpler :)

```
huggingface-cli login
```

> Create a dataset repository. You can add an organization; in this example our embedded FAQ repository id will be `ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare`. 

Reviewer 5: As people love to copy commands without thinking, I think it would be easier if no organization is used here. Otherwise they will wonder why the next command with huggingface-cli will not work.

So I would suggest to re-write this section to use the HF username. At the start of the section we should mention that a ready dataset can be found at https://huggingface.co/datasets/ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare so if you want to skip this section, just use this dataset

```
huggingface-cli repo create embedded_faqs_medicare --type dataset --organization ITESM
```
Clone your repository. Make sure you have [git-lfs installed](https://git-lfs.github.com/). 

```
git lfs install

!git clone https://huggingface.co/datasets/ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare
```

> Now let's host our embedding. See the 🤗Datasets documentation for more information on [how to prepare your files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#prepare-your-files). First, we convert our embeddings from a Pandas `DataFrame` to a CSV. You can save your dataset in any way you prefer, e.g., zip or pickle; you don't need to use Pandas or CSV. Since our embeddings file is not large, we can store it in a CSV, which is easily inferred by the `datasets.load_dataset()` function (see the [Datasets documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/about_dataset_load#build-and-load)), i.e., we don't need to create a loading script. We will save the embeddings inside our repository `ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's host the embedding. See the 🤗Datasets documentation for more information on [how to prepare your files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#prepare-your-files). First, we convert our embeddings from a Pandas `DataFrame` to a CSV. You can save your dataset in any way you prefer, e.g., zip or pickle; you don't need to use Pandas or CSV. Since our embeddings file is not large, we can store it in a CSV, which is easily inferred by the `datasets.load_dataset()` function (see the [Datasets documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/about_dataset_load#build-and-load)), i.e., we don't need to create a loading script. We will save the embeddings inside our repository `ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare`.
```

```py
embeddings.to_csv("embedded_faqs_medicare/embeddings.csv", index=False)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Maybe the UI instructions should be after this

> Change directory to `embedded_faqs_medicare`. We track the large data files with `git lfs track`, and add `.gitattributes` and our embeddings. Git-LFS is not required now as our dataset is not large; however, it is a good practice to use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Change directory to `embedded_faqs_medicare`. You can track the large data files with `git lfs track`, and add `.gitattributes` and our embeddings. Git-LFS is not required now as our dataset is not large; however, it is a good practice to use it, as the embeddings can potentially be huge.
```

```
cd embedded_faqs_medicare/
git lfs track *.csv
git add .gitattributes
git add embeddings.csv
```
Commit and push. You can also upload a loading script, a metadata file, and more. Refer to the [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#upload-your-files).

```
git commit -m "First version of the my_embeddings dataset"
git push
```

Now your dataset is hosted on the Hub for free. You (or whoever you want to share the embeddings with) can quickly load them from a terminal with `embeddings = load_dataset("ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare")`. Let's see how.

## 3. Make a query and get the most similar FAQs

> Suppose a Medicare customer asks, "How can Medicare help me?". We will **find** which of our FAQs could best answer our user query. 

Reviewer 2: This is :fire:

> We will use the same query function we defined before to embed the customer's question and convert it to a NumPy array to operate over it efficiently. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's give a 2-liner explanation before this to understand why they are doing this.

Something along these lines maybe?
> Since the embeddings capture the semantic meaning of the questions, it's possible to compare different embeddings and see how different or similar they are. Thanks to this, you can obtain the most similar embedding to find the most similar question.

```py
question = ["How can Medicare help me?"]

output = query(dict(inputs = question))

import numpy as np
query_embeddings = np.asarray(output)
```

> Install the 🤗Datasets library with `pip install datasets`. Then load our embedded dataset from the Hugging Face Hub and convert it to a NumPy array. Note that this is not the only way to operate on a `DataSet`; for example, you could use PyTorch, Tensorflow, or SciPy (refer to the [Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/loading)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the 🤗 Datasets library with `pip install datasets`. Then, load the embedded dataset from the Hugging Face Hub and convert it to a NumPy array. Note that this is not the only way to operate on a `DataSet`; for example, you could use PyTorch, Tensorflow, or SciPy (refer to the [Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/loading)).
```

```py
from datasets import load_dataset

> faqs_embeddings = load_dataset('ITESM/embedded_faqs_medicare')

Reviewer 4: You can also use the search capabilities of `datasets`. Using FAISS, you can do cosine similarity search like this:
```python
>>> faq = load_dataset(...)["train"]
>>> faq.add_faiss_index(index_name, metric_type=faiss.METRIC_INNER_PRODUCT)
>>> distances, indices = faq.search(index_name, query_embedding)
>>> indices
[6, 2, 8, 9, 0, 11, 10, 7, 1, 3]
```
and if you have a column in the dataset that contains your text, you could even do
```python
>>> distances, examples = faq.get_neares_examples(..., query_embedding)
>>> examples["text"]
['How can I get help with my Medicare Part A and Part B premiums?',
 'What is Medicare and who can get it?',
 'How do I sign up for Medicare?',
 'What are the different parts of Medicare?',
 'Will my Medicare premiums be higher because of my higher income?',
 'How do I get a replacement Medicare card?',
 'How do I sign up for Medicare Part B if I already have Part A?',
 'How do I terminate my Medicare Part B (medical insurance)?',
 'Can I sign up for Medicare Part B if I am working and have health insurance through an employer?',
 'What is the monthly premium for Medicare Part B?']
```
see more in the docs here: https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/faiss_es

note that the metric is inner product in FAISS, so you just need to normalize your embeddings to make it equivalent to cosine similarity

Depending on what you want to showcase in this blog post, you can either use `datasets` for the search or do everything by yourself - but in this case please mention the FAISS support of `datasets` at the end 😇

np_embeddings = faqs_embeddings["train"].to_pandas().to_numpy()
```

> We will use the cosine similarity function to identify which of our FAQs are closest (most similar) to our customer's query. You could also use other functions that measure the distance between two points in a vector space, for example, the dot product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the cosine similarity function to identify which of the FAQs are closest (most similar) to the user's query. You could also use other functions that measure the distance between two points in a vector space, for example, the dot product.
```

```py
def cos_sim(query, embedded_dataset):
  return np.matmul(query, np.transpose(embedded_dataset)) / (np.linalg.norm(query) * np.linalg.norm(embedded_dataset))
```

> The above function will return how close each of our 13 FAQs is to the customer query. We will informally call the resulting vector `hits`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above function will return how close each of our 13 FAQs is to the customer query.
```

```py
hits = cos_sim(query_embeddings, np_embeddings)

print(hits)
```
```py
array([[ 0.01364607,  0.00069707,  0.02375336, -0.00041932, -0.0322302 ,
        -0.02498436,  0.11210787,  0.00566073,  0.01659688,  0.01367002,
         0.0064754 ,  0.00874691, -0.00992617]])
```

Now we define a function to get the indices of the most significant values ​​in our `hits` array; that is, the index of the FAQs in our dataset that are most similar to the customer's query.

```py
def top_faqs(hits_array):

>   return np.flip(np.argpartition(hits_array, range(hits_array.size-1))).tolist()[0]

Reviewer 5: Using `argpartition` or `torch.topk` only make sense if you want to find and sort the topk element, e.g. you have 100k candidates and you just want the top-10.

Here, `np.argpartition` with `range(hits_array.size-1)` will sort everything in an inefficient way. Better to use `np.flip(np.argsort(hits_array))`.

But I would add a top-k parameter, e.g. that you want the top-10 results and then to use `torch.topk`

>   return np.flip(np.argpartition(hits_array, range(hits_array.size-1))).tolist()[0]

Author: Completely agree. I am now using `sentence_transformers.util.semantic_search` which is likely the easiest path: it directly outputs the similarity ranking.
